# JumboDB V0.1

Based on the architecture diagram in V0.1.drawio, 
this version will implement a in memory hashmap 
plus a restful endpoint with following API as the 
initial template database.

This version also include the initial control panel
for jumbodb, The UI based control panel can
connect to different db instance and create/get all 
K,V pair from that db.
 
## API

GET /health - liveness check for the database

GET /resources - list all the data as list of K,V pair

POST /resources - create one K,V pair in db

GET /resources/{key} - get value from db by key

DELETE /resources/{key} - delete K,V pair in db

## Start server
in jumboDB-core/cli 

```azure
go run main.go config.go
```

## Dashboard
in dashboard

```azure
npm start
```

## Configuration
In that version, all the database config are located in 
jumboDB-core/cli/config.toml which have following flags

| Block  | Key | Default | Definition|
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| Connection  | port  | 38421 | The port that db server listening| 

## Why design like that
In that version, the majority goal is to make a service 
that can provide K,V pair storage and query and complete 
the not important parts of the database.


Not important parts include the protocol of between the 
server and client, there have two choice here. 

1. Use binary based protocol + TCP socket, like a RPC protocol.
2. Use existing library/protocol.

I believe that for now, we need to build the db as quicker 
as it can and focuse on the storage engine in next chapter. 
So I decided to use the http plus restful API on that.

Storage is follow the same though, this version is to make 
a workable version of K,V database, the inmemory hashmap is 
good enough to achieve that goal, no need to add extra complexity




