# JumboDB V0.3

Based on the architecture diagram in V0.3.drawio, 
this version will implement the major compaction of lsm tree and the acid

This version had added a couple of attributes into the config.yaml,
most of them are related to compaction.
 
## Config

[storage]

bloomFilterFalsePositiveRate = 0.03 the default bloomfilter error rate
if that rate is too low, it will improve huge memory cost 

memoryTableSize = 3 the default memtable size

skipListLevel = 10 the default skiplist level of memtable

SSTableIndexLocation = "ssTableIndex.index" the sstable index location
it include the sstable file names and related bloomfilters

WALLocation = "wal.jumbo" the acutal wal location that inclue 
all operation of databse

LSMIndexLocation = "lsm.index" the lsm tree index location, 
in that version it only have current index of WAL which will 
be use when db start

engine = "lsm" or "hashmap" lsm will use the lsm tree 
as the storage engine, hashmap will use the V0.1 inmemory hashmap

MajorCompactionFileSize = 3 the default file level that trigger the major compaction.


## API

GET /health - liveness check for the database

GET /resources - list all the data as list of K,V pair

POST /resources - create one K,V pair in db

GET /resources/{key} - get value from db by key

DELETE /resources/{key} - delete K,V pair in db

POST /resources/transactions - create a bulk operation that in one transaction

## Start server
in jumboDB-core/cli 

```azure
go run main.go 
```

## Dashboard
in dashboard

```azure
npm start
```

## Configuration
In that version, all the database config are located in 
jumboDB-core/cli/config.toml which have following flags

| Block  | Key | Default | Definition|
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| Connection  | port  | 38421 | The port that db server listening| 

## Why design like that
In that version, the majority goal is to add the major-compaction 
of LSM tree and the acid for the whole database, some minor goal is 
to update the dashboard

### Major-compaction
For now the SSTable is named [x]-[y].jumbo which x is the level of 
files and y is the logical timestamp of the file. Both x and y are
ordered by new to old. 

Because each file is just a disk version of memtable and the memtable's
size is limited. So, the more data we have, the more files we will have.

In order to reduce the number of SStable, we will need to merge all of them 
together. Major-compaction is the algorithm that merge all SSTables. In theory, it
is just a multiway sorted file merge algorithm.

The trigger of the Major-compaction is **MajorCompactionFileSize**, when
the level 0's file numbers reach to **MajorCompactionFileSize**, the system
will merge all files together and store them into the next layer.

### ACID

**Atomic:**
The implementation of transaction is /resources/transactions with body
[{"key": "<key>", "value": "<value>", "operation:": "PUT/DEL"}]

The implementation is followed the 2PL algorithm, it will first loop
through all the transaction and set a locks for those records then 
execute the transaction line by line and release those locks. If 
there have any w/w conflict, it will just abort the whole transaction

**Consistence:**
The data's consistency is protected by LSM tree and there is no
constraints and triggers for now

**Isolation:**
The implementation of isolation level is focusing on w/r conflict,
for now we use MVCC-like algorithm which means add transaction Ids
for every operation. If there have new read transaction, we can 
just query the key and make sure the transactionId is lower than
the query's transaction.

In that point of view, we can get a **Snapshot isolation** 
(repeatable read) level

**Durability:**
The implementation of durability is by the WAL logs, when the transaction
start apply, it will first write to WAL and if there have any errors
we can just restart the DB and it will read the data back from WAL


### Dashboard

Add the DEL and GET operation for single key